---
layout: post
audio:
  file: New Girl
tags:
  audio
  song
  riversbend
---
After the collaboration on [our last song](/2014/10/03/fall-from-grace/), Kate quickly came up with another idea based on the characters in the novel she is working on. You can read [her take on the song here](http://kateleary.net/new-song-new-girl/).

{% include audio.html %}

One challenge this time is that I needed to sing it — which as I've [talked about before](/2014/09/21/always-something-there/), isn't something that I'm completely comfortable with yet. To make it even more challenging, the song is pretty much at the bottom of my range. I could have transposed it to a higher key, but I also wanted to keep the high octave doubling on the last chorus. I recorded about 5 different vocal takes and then kept the best bits from each. I'm not 100% thrilled with the vocal performance, but I think that I'll always be extremely self critical when it comes to singing. Kate assures me it sounds fine (she might have even said it was good, I was too busy being critical to know for sure).

The overall arrangement came together pretty quickly — I worked out the chord structure on the piano, and everything else fell into place from there.

Recording and mixing took much longer than I hoped, mainly because of the singing, but also because there are more tracks overall than I've worked with before. It's a relatively simple arrangement, but I still wound up with 20 tracks.

{% include img src="cubasis-new-girl.jpg" caption="Cubasis session for \"New Girl\"" %}

## Recording notes

Once again, everything here was done on the iPad.

* The piano sound is from [Sampletank].
* Bass was recorded direct into the iPad and processed through [JamUp]
* The lead vocal was processed using [ToneStack] - mostly for compression and reverb.
* Several tracks were sent to [AUFX:Space] for reverb and [AUFX:Dub] for a timed delay effect.
* Percussion was all created using [Impaktor], which is an amazing drum synth app that uses sound from the iPad's microphone as a trigger. So I created each looped part by tapping on the table next to the iPad, then layered them together.
* There's a very quiet ukulele part in the bridge that was heavily processed using [ToneStack]. I probably should have taken it out completely, but it does add a little color.
* All tracking and mixing was done in [Cubasis] and some final mastering was done in [Final Touch].

{% include links.markdown %}